Hello and welcome to the Harvest Baptist Church sermon podcast.
We are honored that you would click on this and listen to God's word preached by one of our elders.
At the same time, we strongly affirm the biblical mandate for Christians to be faithfully active and in-person part of their local church.
This sermon cannot and will not replace what a local church can provide to the life of a Christian.
That being said,
We hope that this sermon challenges and encourages you in your faith and that it builds upon the faithful ministry of your local church.
We hope that you enjoy.
God bless.
It was a song at one time.
We almost agreed to stop singing here.
They will recall every time we seem to sing it, we had to live it out for a minute, but we sung it again this morning.
He'll turn me with your Bibles to Exodus chapter 15.
And what a song.
Pray you have one of our hymn books.
If you don't take one with you, we have more to replenish and take that song and study it, exeget it.
It's a great, great song with great lyrics.
Exodus chapter 15 this morning was privileged to hang out with the kiddos in Sunday school and Miss Genie's been teaching the kiddos a song And it's written on the board it goes something like this.
I want to be good ground.
I want to be good ground I want to be good ground so God's word can grow in me.
I want to break up that hard ground and
I'm going to dig up those rocks, Lord.
I'm going to pull out those so God's Word can grow in me.
As I heard, I saw that song this morning and the kiddos saw it and they wanted to sing it.
And I said, I don't want to lead you, but they sung it a little bit.
And I thought about that.
And that's kind of what we're doing this morning is plowing up some phallogram.
some hard ground this morning in Exodus chapter 15.
Now for most people, when you think about the Exodus, you think about the Prince of Egypt, you think about the story, the part we've already covered is where you stopped the story, but that's not where the story stops.
There's another part to the story and it really starts here, okay, where we're starting at today in Exodus chapter 15, around verse 21.
There is a second part to this and what God is doing is not just saving the people,
He's not just redeeming a people, he is doing that, but he's redeeming a people so that he might create a people in which he can dwell with.
He's creating a people he wants to dwell with.
That's pretty good parenting goals right there.
To raise a child that you wanna be around, that you wanna be with, that you wanna spend time with.
And God is creating his children so that he might dwell with them and that they might reflect his image
and his glory.
Now, this text this morning is really about bitterness.
If I had to title this morning, it would be about how not to let the disappointments in life turn you bitter.
How not to let the disappointments that you face in life turn you bitter.
Roger said that bitter people are kind of like porcupines.
They might have a lot of good points, but they're hard to be around.
Hard to be around.
Bitter people can be harsh people.
Bitter people are many times very sensitive people.
Bitter people are people who are very critical, very judgmental.
And at times can be sarcastic and grumbling and complaining.
Hebrews chapter 12 verse 15 says this, see to it that no one fails to obtain the grace of God so that a root of bitterness does not spring up causing devastation because many have been defiled by it.
Let no one fail to obtain the grace of God so that we make sure that bitterness, a root of bitterness does not spring up in it, in us because of it.
Many people are defiled.
1 Corinthians chapter 10 verse 10 says, do not grumble as some of those who were destroyed by the destroyer, referring to Exodus chapter 10.
And Paul tells us that these things were written for our example in whom the end of the ages have fallen.
So this is for us to recognize and for us to learn from.
This morning, before we stand and read God's word, I wanna ask you one question.
Do you have peace this morning?
Do you have peace with God?
And to really answer that question, you've got to answer the next one.
Do you have peace with all people?
Is there anyone that you harbor hostility toward anybody?
Because friends, if you do, you truly can't have peace with God.
This morning, would you stand with me as we read Exodus chapter 15?
Would you stand for the reading of God's word?
Exodus chapter 15 verse 21 and Miriam saying to them, here they are on the banks of the Nile.
sing to the Lord for he has triumphed gloriously.
The horse and his rider have thrown into the sea.
Verse 22.
Then Moses made Israel set out from the Red Sea and they went to the wilderness of sure.
They went three days in the wilderness and found no water.
When they came to Mara, they could not drink the water of Mara because it was bitter.
Therefore it was named Mara and the people grumbled.
against Moses saying, what shall we drink?
And he cried to the Lord and the Lord showed him a tree, showed him a log and he threw it into the water and the water became sweet.
There the Lord made for them a statue and a rule and there he tested them.
saying, if you diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God and do what is right in his eyes and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statue, I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians for I am the Lord your healer.
Father, thank you for the reading and the giving of your inspired holy and errant word.
Father, would you make us what we are not this morning in the image of your son?
We ask it in Jesus name and all God's people said amen.
You may be seated.
Let's begin here and we want to see three things on the theme of bitterness this morning.
And as we look in this test, if we looked at this text and we start there in verse 21, when Mary began to sing and Pastor Chris left us off last week and they said, sing to the Lord for he is triumph.
That's one thing I want to bring out this morning.
You think about what they've just been through as a quick recap.
God has saved them through the plagues of Egypt.
He's saved them out of slavery and he has taken the slave people and he's given them rest, become his people.
He's parted the Red Sea.
He has drowned the Egyptian army and he has triumphed gloriously.
I said here over the horse and the rider, he thrown it to the sea.
Now it's one thing to sing at the banks of the Nile.
It's one thing to sing there, but it is a totally different thing to be able to sing in the wilderness.
It's a totally different thing to be able to sing in the hour of testing.
Can we see him there?
He's redeemed to people and now he is molding of people to dwell with.
So we start in verse 22 and we want to see what causes bitterness.
All right.
What is the causes of bitterness?
We want to think on that as we think about this narrative and Moses made Israel set out from the Red Sea.
And I'll find that interesting that Moses made them.
They didn't want to stay there.
He made them set out from the Red Sea.
Now one thing we need to keep in mind, the pillar of cloud, the pillar of God and the fire at night was leading God's people.
The pillars moving, God's people have got to move.
But here we see they don't want to move.
They want to stay there.
And a lot of reason for that, the Egyptian mindset was on the other side of the Red Sea is wilderness.
Over here civilization.
I'm not too sure we want to go through the wilderness We like to stay right here close to the Red Sea where civilization is you think about it.
There's a reason most civilization and most cities are built around geographically water right built around water now We kind of have a hard time thinking about wilderness.
I don't know about you.
I think about wilderness.
I think about camping at Lake Harwell Think about tubing I think about fishing and
I think about having a good time.
That's about as much wilderness as I want to get.
Now, if you get really crazy and you go west into the wilderness, what are you doing?
You're going rafting.
You're going to go see the Yellowstone, Yosemite, right?
Go see all that.
You think that's wilderness, but that's not real wilderness, is it?
Real wilderness is here in this desert that they're going into where they don't know where their next meal's coming from.
As you're going to see here in just a second, they don't know what's coming next.
They don't know where the water is.
And so here they had to set out from the Red Sea and they went to the wilderness of sure.
So think about this.
God has just saved them.
And by watery walls, he's brought salvation and he is now bringing them to a waterless wilderness.
All right.
Now, why is he doing that?
Why is he doing that?
Now we said he wants to mold a people, but ultimately it's to show his power and his grace, but they don't want to go.
You know, I wonder how many of us in a spiritual sense,
If you remember when you became a Christian, when you were born again, when you were saved, and how glorious that was.
And many times we get to think it, man, I'd love to go back to that moment and to that joy I had when I first became a Christian.
But you see, God didn't want to leave you there, did He?
And we just sung.
There really is no shortcut from Egypt to the Promised Land.
You and I have to go through the wilderness.
Acts 14-22, Paul said through many trials and tribulations,
you must enter the kingdom of God.
That's God's ordained way through the wilderness.
And you don't need to think something's wrong with you after you got saved and you started going through trials and tribulations.
Friend, that was God's plan.
That's what God is making.
Moses had to make these people move.
And yet you didn't want to leave that place where you first became a Christian.
But God's making you leave that place so that he can grow you and that he can mold you and sanctify you.
So they had to leave
this place, okay?
And now it says they went three days in the wilderness and they found no water.
Now, as I thought through this passage, I first thought, man, three days without water, but see, they really didn't go three days without water.
They had had water at the Red Sea, right?
They would have gathered water.
Now this is millions of people, right?
I mean, hundreds of thousands of people here.
They would have gathered water to make this journey, all right?
They weren't that
sheepish they would have had water but three days they would begin to use all that water and they would have you know run out of water and begin to panic so we don't need to downplay that this is not a real problem it is in fact a real problem okay that they have no water I mean you can imagine going through this wilderness journey and having children having young children and you think I got water got water for the animals for the children day one we use it day two we use it in day three we use it we're doing okay but now we're out of water
Panic starts to set in, right?
Panic starts to set in.
Verse 23, when they came to Mara, they could not drink the water of Mara.
By the way, this is where we get the name Mary from, Mara.
They come to here and they couldn't drink it because it was bitter.
Therefore, it's named Mara.
Sorry if your name is Mary.
You deal with that how you'd like to.
I guess your parents, you can deal with them on that.
But here, now think about this.
How would they knew it was bitter?
Well, they didn't call the health department and figure it out.
Right?
Parents were saying they eat the other day in Gainesville and you could smell the water.
Didn't they drunk it?
Didn't taste too good, right?
You know, it doesn't take a rocket scientist.
If it don't smell good, don't drink it, right?
I mean, how would they knew it was bitter?
Well, they didn't have a water test, Kersi, right?
Like you do on the job, right?
They wouldn't have that.
How would they knew?
Well, you smell it, right?
I mean, it would have been a little brackish.
It would have been, but think about, imagine this context for just a minute.
They're walking.
They need water and there's hundreds of thousands of people and it's, hey, water up here.
We found the water.
It just goes in a wave going back water.
Hey, there's water up here.
There's water up here.
And mama's getting happy because her baby's going to have some water.
But then all of a sudden they figure out up there, uh-oh, we can't drink this water.
We can't even pot this water.
What begins to happen?
The wave comes in reverse.
Uh, it's bitter water.
We, uh-oh, uh-oh.
By the time it figured out, what do you have now?
You truly have disappointment, disappointment.
And we're going to see her in a minute.
The problem wasn't the bitter water.
The problem was the bitter people.
Because here, what do they do?
They grumble.
The problem was not the bitter water.
The problem was these bitter people who did not have faith in the Lord.
They did not have faith in the Lord.
Now, well, disappointments can really and truly bring about bitterness in our life.
Now, how does this happen?
I think there's many ways this can take place.
Bitterness, a lot can come from God.
You know, I read the Hebrews 12 verse, which said, letting a root of bitterness come up.
What's Hebrews 12 about?
Bible scholars.
What is Hebrew 12 about?
It's about discipline.
A lot of times when God chastises us and he disciplines us and just like when you discipline your own children, why do you discipline your own children so that they'll become better children?
But if you're not careful in the way you discipline or even if you are careful, sometimes they can become bitter towards you.
There are times when God disciplines us and we become bitter toward God.
There are times when people hurt people, right?
Sometimes people, you think about the hurt, you cannot live in this world without being hurt.
It's just part of humanity.
Sometimes people hurt you and it's intentional.
Sometimes people hurt you and it's unintentional.
You hang around, you get committed to a Bible church somewhere and it's only a matter of time until somebody hurt you.
It's just who we are.
It's what we do.
Intentional or unintentional.
You last in any human relation for more than a day, hurt is coming.
And if you're not careful,
If you're in a bad mood, you get hurt and you get what?
You get resentful just a little bit.
And then you want what?
You want a little bit of revenge.
And now the person who isn't going to let bitterness root in their heart, what they do is they say, wait a minute, I'll not to think like this.
This revenge ain't right.
This resentment I have is not right.
I know the grace of God.
I've experienced the grace of God.
I'm going to repent of this and I'm going to get this right.
I'm going to dwell on grace and I'm going to forgive.
But if we don't do that, if we don't repent from that revenge and that resentment in our heart, we begin to harbor hostility, don't we?
We begin to harbor hatred for people and that, my friend, is what sets up a root.
of bitterness.
If you think about bitterness, there is the seed of bitterness.
You could think that what causes it?
We said God's discipline.
We said when others hurt us, sometimes, believe it or not, one of the things that can cause bitterness as people in Christian sometimes is certain doctrines in the Bible that they cannot square with their mind.
Certain doctrines, certain chapters, certain books they read and they don't like it.
And so they become bitter toward God or toward the Bible for, and that can happen very easily.
Another thing, a hard providence.
Here, God is leading them through His providence, His guiding, into this desert where they seem like there is no water.
This is God's will.
This is where God is leading them, and many times God leads us providentially through hardships, and we can become bitter.
at God.
Music still in their ears from the Red Sea three days later, three days later.
Think about all the plagues that they've seen God produce.
Think about the salvation in Egypt.
Think about all that they have seen God do at the Red Sea, a watery wall that they walked through on dry land.
Curse you brought up at night on dry land.
No sun to dry.
No explanation.
God's supernatural work and it wasn't days later.
They were singing and dancing.
Now they are bitter and they are because of, they seem to be disappointed.
Now,
So there are causes of bitterness that we have.
And then what do they do?
Let's go to the next verse, verse 24.
And the people grumbled against Moses.
What shall we drink?
Now, this is interesting.
This is the first term this word shows up in the Bible.
We got the first song in the Bible in chapter 15.
And we got the first mention of this word grumble.
Now there's,
and art, you know, of course, to understanding certain words in the Bible.
And one of the laws of interpretation is go back to the first time it was used and help you kind of understand the foundation of what it means.
So we need to kind of jump into this for a second of what this word means, because we're going to see it a lot.
It's going to show up in the next three or four chapters, and it's not going to stop.
And, you know, the Bible says, arguing, complaining about nothing.
But when they start grumbling, it doesn't stop.
That'll say something to us.
You start grumbling.
You start arguing and complaining, friend.
It's hard to stop it.
It is hard to stop it.
And you see, this is the very opposite of Exodus chapter two.
In Exodus chapter two, they cried to the Lord and the Lord saved them, right?
They cried out, God, this slavery is too much.
God save us and God saved.
The opposite is they grumbled not to the Lord.
Who did they grumble to?
They grumbled to Moses.
They grumbled against Moses.
Now, when
Trials come, when hurt comes, when hard doctrine we are approached with, when others hurt us, intentional or not, or we're disciplined of the Lord, whatever the soil or the seed is, when there is a heart that is hard, when there is a heart that is not right, we begin to grumble.
Now, what's the difference between, what is grumbling?
I think one way to think about it is think about what it's not.
There's a difference between grumbling and groaning.
If you groan, you might say, hey, this is hard.
This is tough.
It's a little bit of complaining.
But to grumble is to say, God, you're hard.
To groan would be to say, God, I need a change.
God, I need some help here.
This is not working.
To grumble would be say, I need a different God.
It is different in that you start to complain.
The best way I could think of it, it's like having a preteen or a teenager.
And I see some of these in school, even at the high school level, who begin to say, you know what?
I think it happens.
I think all of us as children go through this at about age 13 or so.
You begin to understand.
You think you know a lot and you begin to think, you know what?
The older I get, the more wiser I get and the more ignorant dumb my parents get.
Because when you're younger, when they're seven and eight, you begin to think, you know, you doubt your parents, but you know what?
You say they know better.
I mean, they're, I mean, hey, they say it.
They're smart.
They love me.
They're going, I just want to trust mom and daddy.
I'm just going, but when you get to about, don't act, don't be pointed fingers.
We all did it.
Now you all went through it.
Everyone of us, you know what?
My parents don't know.
You know what?
I don't trust them anymore because I know more than they do.
Friend, that's grumbling.
It's different girl.
I don't want to do what mom and daddy said.
That's grown in, but to truly grumble is to say, I know better than they do.
This isn't right.
They are not as wise as I am.
And you want to overthrow them.
That is what they're doing here.
They're grumbling again.
You see, there's nothing wrong with the question.
What shall we drink?
That is a fine question.
They should have asked that of God.
They should have cried out, God, are you gonna give us some water out here?
You're in need.
We're told as God's children to take our carriage to the Lord, right?
That's right and good.
But they didn't do that.
They grumbled against.
Moses and they grumbled against Moses.
Now, there's the causes, but it's also the consequences of bitter being bitter.
And let's think about this for a minute.
It was against Moses.
Moses hadn't done nothing to him.
Moses made him leave, but it was God who made him leave.
It was God who was guiding him.
That Hebrews 12 verse again in verse 15 says, make sure a root of bitterness does not take root in your life.
And because of it, many are defile.
Bitter people don't just leave bitterness to themselves.
Misery loves company and so does bitterness.
So does.
Bitter people are complaining people.
Bitter people are negative people.
Bitter people can can bring a room down.
Bitter people are critical people.
You know, you can find what you're looking for.
Isn't that true?
You can find, if you come to church looking to be critical, you can look, you can start right here in this pulpit and find all the problems you want to find.
I promise you, I got a lot of issues I can hand to you and show you.
Okay.
If you look for problems up here, you'll find a bunch of them.
But hopefully if you look to find the Bible, you can find it and find God's word too.
You will, you will find what you look for.
And if you come critical, you will find something to critique and bitter people come looking to critique.
Better people also like to push buttons.
That's what they're doing here.
They are pushing Moses' button.
They didn't fool God by not going to God.
God knew what they were doing.
They went to Moses to put, and they're gonna keep pushing Moses' buttons, aren't they?
Over and over and over again.
Now, why do better people push other people's buttons?
And me and Renee was talking about this yesterday.
Better people, if you'll watch, they want to push other people's button and to get them round up so they feel justified in their bitterness and they feel superior.
in their bitterness, in their hurt.
They feel superior if they can make others react.
Hurt people, friends.
Hurt people.
Now, listen, this is all of us.
We all in some way have been hurt.
And if we're not careful, I'm sure if we all search our heart this morning, we all know that we do this ourselves.
That we hurt people.
We become bitter and we hurt other people.
We are negative people at times.
We do criticize unrightly at times.
We look to criticize.
We do push other people's buttons like they did here to Moses.
Ephesians four verse 23 Ephesians four, Paul says this, put away all bitterness.
Here's why it produces wrath, anger, clamor and slander and put it away from you or not.
What you'll find is malice.
Put it all away from you cause it produces malice and hatred and slander.
their consequences of bitterness.
But here, most importantly, what's the cure for bitterness?
What did God do here?
You know, you think how God's going to react here in verse 25.
You know, you expect a rebuke, you expect a chastisement, a condemnation, a judgment for this grumbling.
No, what does God do?
Verse 25, and he cried to the Lord and the Lord showed him a tree.
He showed him a log and he threw it into the water and the water became
Sweet.
I mean, you can't help but see Jesus there.
Can you not?
He showed him a tree and he threw it in the water and the bitter became sweet.
What is it?
Friends, pretty simple this morning.
How do we cure our bitterness that you and I have in our heart?
There's only one thing.
It's the grace of God alone.
If you take something this morning, here's what you got to take from the word of God this morning.
There's no amount of counseling that can cure bitterness.
There's no psychologist that can cure bitterness.
There is no antidepressant that can cure bitterness.
There is no amount of...
There's nothing that can cure bitterness apart from the grace of God and experiencing the grace of God.
Why is that?
One, you can't lend grace if you've never experienced it.
You can't give it if you don't have, if you've not received it.
And number two, where gratitude is, bitterness cannot be.
Bitterness cannot dwell in a heart overfilled with gratitude and gratitude comes from the grace of God.
One who experienced the grace of God and heart is overfilled with gratitude for it.
Bitterness cannot dwell there.
You cannot be grateful and bitter at the same time.
Think about what God is doing right here in this act in verse 25.
This is a reverse of what God did in the first plague.
What did God do in the first?
The Nile River, the first plague was turned the Nile River into blood, correct?
That, the Nile River, we talked about on and on probably too much.
The Nile River was a blessing for the Egyptian people, right?
It was a blessing and God turned it into a curse.
God turned it into a curse.
What does God do to this cursed water, this bitter water?
He turns it into a blessing.
Is that not what God does in Christ?
In Christ, the Bible says cursed is every man who hangs on a tree.
Cursed is every man who hangs on a tree.
Christ was cursed not only because he was hung on a tree, but because when he was hung on a tree, our sin, the sin of his people was placed upon Christ.
And he was cursed.
He took the wrath of God.
He became our propitiation.
And that curse, my friend, is the biggest blessing this world has ever seen.
God took a curse and he made it a blessing for us.
You know, when somebody hurts you, what do you say?
I don't deserve that.
I don't deserve to be hurt like that.
Friend, you're right.
You deserve a lot more.
And so do I.
So do I.
There's only one person who could ever say, I didn't deserve that.
There's only one person.
And that was Jesus on the cross.
He's the only one who didn't deserve it.
But God took what he didn't deserve and thank God for his read.
I started reading a book.
My mother-in-law got me for Christmas, J. Machen and Machen said on his on the way where he was going to minister in South Dakota for the last time he got pneumonia and died in South Dakota.
He sent a telegram to a professor friend.
He said without the
active obedience of Christ, there is no hope.
Less Christ was actively willing to take what he didn't deserve and be obedient to the Father, there is no hope.
Because when you and I put our faith in Christ, God takes, not only our sin puts it upon Christ, he takes the righteous obedience of Christ and puts it upon us.
It is double imputation.
He takes our sin and God takes his righteousness and infuses it and imparts it to us.
Now,
All of that being said, we need to dwell there for just a second.
Because some of us have bitterness in our heart because we have not forgiven people, right?
Or we've failed to grant forgiveness to people.
Now, we need to think about the cross for just a minute.
There's something that isn't written in a lot of books about forgiveness, and here it is.
Forgiveness cost.
Forgiveness cost you.
If you're going to forgive somebody, it costs you.
You think about the cross.
For God to forgive us in Christ, it cost him.
He gave his only son.
If somebody owes you $100 and you forgive him, it cost you what?
It cost you $100.
When you forgive somebody, you have to, what are you giving up?
What's it cost you?
It cost you that justice?
Cost you that revenge?
It cost you that upsetness, that anger?
It cost you all of that.
You have got to let it go.
It will cost you to forgive.
Some of us this morning,
need to have a private little private Calvary right here.
You need to crucify yourself and you need to forgive somebody.
Whatever hostility you are holding in your heart, whatever hate that you're harboring in your heart toward anybody this morning, you need to forgive them.
You need to go ahead and count the costs this morning of forgiveness and forgive and friend.
If you'll truly do that, you'll have your own private Easter too.
You'll have your own.
You'll be set free.
You truly will.
But bitterness and hate is the only plant that really spoils the pot.
You hold that hate in your heart, friend.
It will not only hurt people around you, but it will kill your own self.
It'll bring all kinds of problems in your life.
You need to forgive this morning.
You need to grant forgiveness this morning.
The only way you can do that is by experiencing God's grace.
What is the cure for bitterness?
Is the grace of God?
It's faith in the grace of God, but it's also faith in the provision of God.
And the end of this verse, it says, the Lord and verse 25 made them a statue and a rule.
And there he tested them.
He tested them.
This mini plague, right?
Where God took this water and he took that curse, made it a blessing.
He said, if you diligently listen to the voice of your God and do all that is right in his eyes and give ear to his commandments and keep all his statues,
I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians, for I am the Lord, your healer."
Now, interesting about these verbs, if you listen, if you do, if you give these verbs, it's given in verse 26.
This is the very, also in verse,
Thank you back to Exodus chapter two.
God heard their voice.
He saved them.
He gave his ear to hear them and he showed his statues.
He's going to give them his law and simple to put two and two together here.
Since God has saved us, since God has created and redeemed these pilgrims, redeemed this people.
He's put them in the wilderness and for them to avoid the plagues of God to come upon them, all they have to do is hear and listen.
Now, almost repeated twice here is to listen and give ear to God.
Frank Christian, it is up to the uttermost importance that you put yourself under the preaching and teaching of God's word, that you give yourself to a ministry.
I mean, think about it.
How long did it take them to become bitter, to forsake God?
Three days.
Can you think about Adam and Eve in the garden?
How long did it take them to sin?
Think about it.
One day.
One day, and they weren't in there for years and months.
One day and they were out.
Friend, how quick we go astray.
We need God's word to remind us here, don't we?
We need God's word.
We need to give ourselves here so that he can be.
And this is really a lesson here.
He says, I am Jehovah Rafa.
I am your healer.
This is really a lesson from the lesser to the greater.
You see, this is not the first time they grumbled.
This is the first time we get the word.
You remember they grumbled on the other side of the Red Sea.
Moses, you brought us out here to kill us.
They want enough grays back there in Egypt.
You brought us out here to kill us.
Now they're grumbling again.
God might have brought them out of Egypt, but they still had the Egypt in them, right?
And God was working on taking it out.
Now sadly, you know how this story is in.
We don't need to add like we ain't read this story before.
We read it in Hebrews three.
They did not enter to God's rest.
That bitterness took root and it defiled everyone in this generation, but just a few men and a few families.
They did not enter into God's rest.
Friend, if you let it be a warning this morning, if you don't deal with that bitterness in your heart, if you don't let that, if you don't grow in the grace of God and experience the grace of God in Christ, and if you don't let that overflow and overcome the bitterness and the hatred that you have in your heart and may it be in my heart, friend, you and I will end up just like Judas, Judas who was disappointed in Christ.
that Christ did not come to rule the way he expected him to rule to take over Jerusalem.
At the moment he thought he was going to do it with all the power of mind he's seen in Christ.
He was disappointed with Christ.
And therefore he foresuck Christ and bitterness set up in his heart.
And you see how that story ended.
Friend, that story and that story will be you and me.
If we don't figure out how to deal with bitterness in our heart, we will not enter into the rest of God.
The Christian cannot keep bitterness in their heart.
Let this be a warning, lest the plagues of Egypt fall upon us.
Verse 27, they come to Elam where there were 12 springs of water and 70 palm trees, and they had camped there by the water.
Now, they came to an Oasis.
This is what God had planned for them.
If they would have said, God, where's the water?
God said, I got the Oasis right up ahead if y'all just follow me just a little bit longer.
This is what God had for them.
Now, I think the message here is pretty clear in the symbolism of these
of what they see here.
There's 12 palm trees, 12 tribes, 12 springs, excuse me, 12 tribes of Israel.
We're going to learn here as we go forward, there's 70 elders as Moses is going to delegate power.
There's 70 elders that go up with him on the mountain.
And here God has, God knows his people.
God knows him.
He knows the tribes.
He knows the elders.
He knows, this isn't everybody gets a palm tree.
This is God saying, listen, I know you.
I know what you need.
This morning, some of you say three days of going without water.
I more understand going 40 years without water, because that's how my life's been.
Listen, here's what you need to hear this morning.
God knows his children.
God knows his people.
He knows what you can endure.
He knows what he's putting you through.
And just like we sung earlier, Lord, how long are you gonna put your worm to death?
How much more are you gonna put me through?
I'm answering the prayer for increased faith and grace.
Question this morning.
Do you have peace?
The Bible says there really truly is no peace with God unless you have faith in Christ.
This morning, if you've never put your faith in Christ, everybody sitting beside you, every member of this church would love to discuss that with you, how you can have true peace with God.
The question also is today is, do you have peace with others?
Is there any hostility in their heart?
Is there any forgiveness you need to grant this morning or forgiveness you need to ask?
Lastly friends, we were made to yearn for this Oasis.
We were made to yearn for this, but we know this is not the final resting place.
The final resting place is with Christ and with God.
Let us search our heart this morning and get rid of all bitterness.
Father, thank you for the opportunity to open this word to be challenged by it.
Thank you for the work that you've done in my life this week as I've studied this passage.
Father, I pray your people will do well on this word
and that you would search them and know them in your Holy Spirit.
You would show us where we are, the evils of our own heart, how we've let the joys of this earth overcome the joys that are in Christ.
Father, search us and know us and lead us and guide us in your Word.
Help us to experience your grace, to understand and grow in your grace and in Christ and what we have in Christ and the riches that are ours in Christ so that we may give forgiveness and grace to others.
So therefore you can be glorified and your gospel can go forward.
We ask in in Christ's name.
Amen.
Thank you for listening to this sermon from Harvest Baptist Church.
For more information about the church, please visit our website, HarvestBC.Church.
If you would like to contact us, please email us at contact.harvestbc.gmail.com or you can call us at 706-780-2211.
If you are looking for a church home or visiting the North Georgia area, we would love for you to join us on a Sunday morning.
at 9.30 in the fellowship hall for breakfast and Sunday school, and then at 11 a.m. for our Lord's Day worship service.
We hope that you have a great week.
God bless.